#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\date{}
\usepackage{url}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language british
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement H
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\headheight 2cm
\headsep 2cm
\footskip 1cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip bigskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Big Data Summative Assignment
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
hzwr87
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Libraries used and installation instructions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
SkLearn, Keras
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
All testing run on GTX 1050 graphics card.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Glove embeddings twitter - glove.6B.300d.txt - download from (actual zip link)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
https://nlp.stanford.edu/projects/glove/
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Preprocessing
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The first preprocessing step was to convert all of the text to lowercase,
 remove newlines, special characters and multiple spaces.
 The purpose of this was to try and ensure that the text was in a uniform
 format, and try and differentiate between real and fake new based on text
 content alone.
 On examination of the dataset, an early observation was that many of the
 articles were web based, and contained many web URLS, twitter handles and
 hashtags.
 These were also removed, again for the purpose of differentiating based
 on text.
 There were also several examples which were either blank documents or individua
l words.
 The decision was made to remove any document containing less than 10 characters
 from the dataset, to ensure that each document contained sufficient text
 to learn from.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Shallow Learning
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Feature Extraction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Having cleaned the data, we now come to extract features.
 The two features used in this study are term frequency (tf) and term frequency-
inverse document frequency (tf-idf).
 Both have been used here in order to determine the effect that taking into
 account the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

importance
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 of each word to a document.
 For both of these features, we have also considered a range of n-grams.
 The range chosen here begin with unigrams alone and end with the combination
 of all n-grams up to 8.
 The inclusion of the combination of all these n-grams was due to the strength
 of the combination of the long distance dependencies of the larger n-grams
 and the local features of the smaller n-grams.
 We have not gone higher than 8-grams as up to this point the precision,
 recall, F1 score and accuracy had peaked and started to decrease, whereas
 the runtime is increasing.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Classification
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
After these features were extracted, they were passed into a Multinomial
 Naïve Bayes classifier.
 The main parameter for this classifier is alpha, which represents the level
 of additive smoothing.
 Through experimentation, it was established that the optimal value for
 this parameter was 0, i.e.
 no smoothing, and the results presented below were collected using this
 value.
 The data was split 80:20 between train and test, and the classification
 report of SciKitLearn was used to obtain the precision, recall and F1 score.
 The accuracy and runtime are also recorded.
 The optimal parameters were the combination of 1-4 grams using tf-idf,
 although the results were very close to the 1-3 grams, which had a shorter
 runtime.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Deep Learning
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Feature Extraction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For the extraction of features for deep learning, the decision was made
 to use GloVe: Global Vectors for Word Representation.
 This algorithm is trained on 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

aggregated global word-word co-occurrence statistics from a corpus, and
 the resulting representations showcase interesting linear substructures
 of the word vector space
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset


\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "Pennington2014"

\end_inset

.
 WHYYYYy
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
SELECTION OF GLOVE FILE
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Classification
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
From here, these features are passed to a Keras Neural Network.
 The most important layers in this model are the LSTM and RNN layers, so
 those will be the main point of comparison addressed in this report.
 The remainder of the network is standardised to both approaches.
 The architecture that has been chosen is two convolutional layers with
 128 filters each, and a kernel size of 5.
 Between each of these is a max pooling layer of pool size 5.
 This is then passed to the LSTM/RNN, followed by a dropout of 0.25, a dense
 layer of 128 units and finally a single unit dense layer with a sigmoid
 activation function.
 Sigmoid was chosen as the values with only vary between 0 and 1, as this
 is the format of the training labels.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Conclusion
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
btprint "btPrintAll"
bibfiles "BigData"
options "plain"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
